You actually tailed Samui. You guys are pretty good.
Y-You... You're Naruto!
You tailed us! What's the big idea?!
Boss, the one on the right... is Kakashi Hatake.
I know that!
Did the Hokage send you, Kakashi Hatake?
No, I came to ask you personally
about a request by Naruto Uzumaki of the Hidden Leaf.
Naruto Uzumaki?
If you could hear him out for just a while.
Isn't this a bit rude?
Stopping us en route to the summit without any prior notice.
I am fully aware of that.
No matter.
You there, boy! Speak!
Sasuke...
I want you to cancel the disposal of Sasuke Uchiha!
H-Hey, this isn't really the place...
Are you still talking about that?!
You sure got guts.
What are you saying?
I know it sounds ridiculous!
But this is the only way I know how to say it!
Sasuke is my friend!
My friend's gonna get killed.
I can't just stand by and let it happen!
On top of that, I don't want Sasuke to be
the cause of the Leaf and Cloud Villages killing each other.
I don't want my friends, or the Cloud to fight for revenge!
I'm begging you!
I don't want us killing each other out of vengeance anymore!
All Sasuke ever thought about was revenge!
He became obsessed with it and that changed him.
Vengeance makes you go mad.
It turns you into someone you don't recognize anymore.
I don't want anyone else to become like Sasuke!
I don't want the Leaf and Cloud Villages to destroy each other!
That's why...
I have work to do, so I'm going on ahead.
Please report to Kakashi Sensei about the mission.
Sure! You can count on me.
See you.
Say Naruto...
You like Sakura, don't you?
What?!
It was in a book.
When you're with someone you like, you always smile.
You're like that.
Did you tell her how you feel?
How could I?
I'm a guy who couldn't even keep my promise to her.
Sai... Stay out of this.
No. I can't just sit still either, Naruto.
We will dispose of Sasuke!
After that, you can stop the cycle.
What a fool.
We are in a hurry. We've let you have your say.
Lord Raikage...
The incident in which you tried to obtain the Hyuga Byakugan
is still unresolved on our side.
The Hidden Leaf swallowed tears of blood and
avoided fighting the Cloud, who fueled the fires of war.
It's thanks to those noble sacrifices that your people still exist.
Please try not to forget that.
Right here and now, this young ninja,
no matter how awkwardly, is bowing his head in his affection
for the Cloud and Leaf, village and nation.
Lord Raikage...
As one of the five Kage, what do you think of this?
A ninja does not bow his head so easily!
A ninja values action and strength!
Concessions are forbidden in agreements made between ninja.
The history of man is a history of war.
Since the three Great Ninja Wars
every nation, and every land has tried to obtain powerful ninjutsu.
Those without power are crushed.
That is the truth of the ninja world.
The Akatsuki will be branded as wanted fugitives.
Then, not only I,
but the whole world will hunt Sasuke down.
Yet you bow your head for this criminal
and plead for mercy for your friend.
In the ninja world, that is not friendship!
Boy from the Hidden Leaf, think hard on what you must do!
The ninja world does not indulge fools!
Let's go!
Naruto...
Enough already.
Raise your head.
We have been waiting for you.
He's the one. The old one in the middle.
So that's...Danzo!
SAMURAI Please remove your Kage hats.
LIGHTNING
In response to Lord Raikage's request,
WATER In response to Lord Raikage's request,
the five Kage have assembled here.
EARTH the five Kage have assembled here.
WIND
FIRE
I am Mifune, your moderator.
The Five Kage Summit Conference is called into order.
Naruto's Plea
I am Mifune, your moderator.
The Five Kage Summit Conference is called into order.
I shall speak first. Hear me.
There's such a difference in Kage these days.
To be a Kage at your age
is quite an accomplishment, Lord Kazekage.
It seems your father trained you extremely well,
except in the area of proper etiquette.
You're probably right.
It is the reason why I can be here as Kagekaze.
You certainly are cocky.
Lord Tsuchikage, there's no need to make fun of him.
Continue, Lord Kazekage.
I am a former Jinchuriki.
I was captured by the Akatsuki,
- they took my Tailed Beast -The nerve of that Tsuchikage!
- and nearly killed me. -Quiet!
So I consider the Akatsuki extremely dangerous.
I sought the cooperation of the five Kage many times,
but was ignored.
Except by the previous Hokage.
At a time when various lands have had their Jinchuriki stolen
the response by this group has been far too slow!
How can the Hidden Villages of the Five Great Nations serve
as an example when they allow their Jinchuriki to be taken?
It is an embarrassment!
It is common sense to resolve this in utmost secrecy.
Seeking the help of other lands just because of that is nonsense!
Saving face... Prestige...
Such old-fashioned beliefs.
Such a brat.
Old-fashioned beliefs aside...
I will acknowledge that as the Mizukage,
I have delayed action.
However, having our Tailed Beast stolen is no cause for immediate fear.
Controlling a Tailed Beast requires skill, knowledge and time.
The Jinchuriki and the Tailed Beast must mature together
and adapt to each other.
And still, controlling the Tailed Beast is difficult.
It is not a simple task.
Isn't that so, Lord Kazekage?
The only ones who were capable of controlling a Tailed Beast were
Madara Uchiha and the First Hokage, Senju Hashirama.
Also Fourth Mizukage Yagura,
and Lord Raikage's younger brother, Killer Bee.
However...
- Chojuro! - Right!
Enough...
of this!
This is a place of discussion.
Please refrain from disruptive actions.
Stand down, Foo, Torune.
You too, Kankuro, Temari.
Ao, Chojuro. I'm fine.
Yes, ma'am.
Let us continue our discussion.
The Hidden Leaf, Rock, Sand and Mist...
Rogue Ninja from your villages make up the Akatsuki!
And that is not all!
From our investigations, we know that among you,
including your previous Kage, there are those who used the Akatsuki!
Used them?!
I do not trust you!
I had no intention of even discussing this with you.
But the reason I convened this summit
is to question your loyalty!
What do you mean, "used" the Akatsuki?
You are the Kazekage, yet you have not been informed?
Ask the elders back home!
You used the Akatsuki in the past war!
The Great Nations are heading towards uniform stability.
They are moving from military expansion to military disarmament.
As fear and the threat of war diminishes between nations,
Hidden Villages, which are the source of its military strength,
become costly hindrances.
And yet, carelessly downsizing the villages poses a risk.
What if war suddenly breaks out?
It would be a problem to depend on ninja
who have no experience in war.
It would mean certain defeat!
And one way to reduce that risk is mercenary soldiers.
Namely, the Akatsuki?
It takes effort and money to train skilled ninja from your own village.
But the Akatsuki, which makes war its livelihood,
is made up of experienced professionals.
Furthermore, they can be hired for cheap.
Best of all, they return exceptional results.
Get serious, Tsuchikage!
The Sand used the Akatsuki to destroy the Hidden Leaf.
I'm speaking of Orochimaru!
It is not clear if he had broken away from the Akatsuki or not.
But as a result, your father, the Fourth Kazekage,
and the Third Hokage Hiruzen, died.
And frankly, it's hard not to rule out the idea
that this was someone's scheme.
The old fox.
The most suspicious is the Hidden Mist!
You Mist do not conduct diplomacy.
There are even rumors that the Akatsuki originated there!
Since we have come this far I will speak honestly.
Is Lady Fifth going to reveal...
There were suspicions that
someone was manipulating Yagura, our Fourth Mizukage.
And there was a possibility that it was the Akatsuki.
No one wanted this to get blown out of proportion.
Each and every one of you... Hold your tongue, Raikage!
Ultimately, it is because your village disregarded the disarmament efforts
and sought powerful ninjutsu.
We had no choice but to counter by hiring the Akatsuki!
What?!
Before we start arguing about the situation,
there is a statement I have been waiting to make.
What is it?
The leader of the Akatsuki is...
probably Madara Uchiha.
Are you sure of that?
Hasn't he been dead for several decades?
He is right.
He died long ago.
I do not know the details.
But the information is quite reliable.
Are you saying he is immortal?!
Perhaps.
To think...that he was really a monster.
I want to speak on behalf of the neutral nations.
The leader of the Akatsuki was able to read the times well.
Despite stabilization, nations had private suspicions
and the Akatsuki took advantage of that weakness to amass its power.
What are you trying to say?!
Calm down.
Turn calamity into good fortune.
It is extremely rare for all five Kage to assemble.
What do you say?
Until the Akatsuki is eliminated, why not establish
the world's first Allied Shinobi Forces of the Five Hidden Villages?
An allied force?
That is a fine plan. We are in an emergency state.
Cooperation is crucial.
It's going perfectly.
Going forward, we must determine a chain of command.
We must avoid any further confusion.
So? Who will we choose to lead the allied forces?
Leaving that to you five will only result in arguments.
So I ask that you respect the position of the neutral nations
and allow me to come up with a proposal
to decide who among you five Kage is most suitable.
This spells the end of Tsunade's era.
Presently, only Hidden Leaf Village has a Jinchuriki, the Nine-Tails.
The key is how to utilize it.
How about granting the supreme authority
of the Allied Shinobi Forces to the Hokage?
Why did it turn out like this?!
Don't cry, Ino!
Kiba, don't be so harsh.
You know how Ino has felt about Sasuke all these...
It can't be helped!
Things have changed since then.
Will they be okay?
Look at Ino. How will Naruto and Sakura take it?
Let's leave it to Shikamaru. He'll find the right words.
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "Painful Decision"
Wait, Shikamaru!
Tune in again!